"SPARTA WWW Site"_sws - "SPARTA Documentation"_sd - "SPARTA Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://sparta.sandia.gov)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

compute reaction/tally command :h3

[Syntax:]

compute ID reaction/tally group-ID mix-ID value1 value2 ... :pre

ID is documented in "compute"_compute.html command :ulb,l
reaction/tally = style name of this compute command :l
group-ID = group ID for which surface elements to perform calculation on :l
mix-ID = mixture ID to perform calculation on :l
one or more values can be appended :l
value = {id/pre} or {id/post} or {id/post2} or {type/pre} or {type/post} or {type/post2} or {id/surf} or {time} or {xc} or {yc} or {zc} or {vx/pre} or {vy/pre} or {vz/pre} or {vx/post} or {vy/post} or {vz/post} or {vx/post2} or {vy/post2} or {vz/post2} :l
  {id/pre} = particle ID before collision
  {id/post} = particle ID after collision/reaction
  {id/post2} = particle ID of new 2nd particle after reaction
  {type/pre} = particle type before collision
  {type/post} = particle type after collision/reaction
  {type/post2} = particle type of new 2nd particle after reaction
  {id/surf} = surface element ID
  {time} = time of collision (within timestep, see below)
  {xc}, {yc}, {zc} = coordinates of collision point
  {vx/pre}, {vy/pre}, {vz/pre} = velocity components before collision
  {vxnew}, {vynew}, {vznew} = velocity components after collision/reaction
  {vxnew2}, {vynew2}, {vznew2} = velocity components of outgoing particle :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

compute 1 reaction/tally all all id/pre id/post id/post2 type/pre type/post type/post2 id/surf time xc yc zc :pre

This command will dump the tallies in the previous command to a dump
file every 10 steps:

dump 1 tally all 10 tmp.tally c_1\[*\] :pre

[Description:]

Tally various values for each collision of a particle with a surface
element during the current timestep.  Only surface collisions which
result in a chemical reaction are tallied by this command, as enabled
by the "surf_react"_surf_react.html command.  See the related "compute
collision/tally"_compute_reaction_tally.html command to tally simple
collisions which do not induce reactions.  It provides different tally
value options than this compute.

Only surface elements in the surface group specified by {group-ID} and
particles with species in the mixture specified by {mix-ID} are
included.  See the "group grid"_group.html command for info on how
surface elements can be assigned to surface groups.

This compute can be used for simulations with either explicit or
implicit surface elements.  See "Section 6.13"_Section_howto_13 for
more discussion of explicit and implicit surfaces.

The results of this compute can be used by different commands in
different ways.  The values for a single timestep can be output by the
"dump tally"_dump.html command.  Currenlty this is the only option for
accessing the tallied values.

Note that if a gas/surface reaction takes place
"surf_react"_surf_react.html command, then a collision of a single
particle with a surface can result in 0, 1, or 2 particles being
produced.  The species of the 1 or 2 product particles may be
different than the species of the reactant.  All of these attributes
can be tallied using the values explained next.

:line

The {id/pre} value is the ID of the incident particle.  Note that
particle IDs are generated randomly.  Thus multiple particles in the
system can potentially have the same ID.  See "Section
6.17"_Section_howto_17 for more details on particle IDs.

The {id/post} and {id/post2} values are the post-collision IDs of the
0, 1, or 2 resulting particles.  If the incident particle vanished in
the reaction, then {id/post} will be 0.  Otherwise it will be the same
as {id/pre}.  If {id/post2} is 0, no 2nd particle was created by the
reaction, otherwise it is the random ID assigned to the newly created
particle.

The {type/pre} value is the integer index for the incident particle
species.  It is a value from 1 to Nspecies. The value corresponds to
the order in which species were defined via the "species"_species.html
command.  See "Section 6.17"_Section_howto_17 for more details on
particle types.

The {type/post} and {type/post2} values are the post-collision integer
indices for the particle species of the 0, 1, or 2 resulting
particles.  If the incident particle vanished in the reaction, then
{type/post} will be 0.  Otherwise {type/post} is the new species index
of the incident particle.  If {type/post2} is 0, no 2nd particle was
created by the reaction, otherwise it is the species index of the
newly created particle.

The {id/surf} value is the ID of the surface element.  For explicit
surfaces, surface element IDs are unique.  For implicit surfaces, the
surface ID of all the surface elements within a grid cell are the grid
cell ID.  See "Section 6.13"_Section_howto_13 for more discussion of
explicit and implicit surfaces.

The {time} value is the point in time within the timestep when the
collision occured.  Thus if the timestep size is DT, as set by the
"timestep"_timestep.html command, the {time} values will all be within
the range of 0.0 to DT, for all collisions tallied by this compute on
each timestep it is invoked.

The {xc}, {yc}, and {zc} are the coordinates of the collision point
between the particle and the surface element.

The {vx/pre}, {vy/pre}, {vz/pre} values are the velocity components of
the incident particle before it collides with the surface element.

The {vx/post}, {vy/post}, {vz/post} values are the velocity components
of the incident particle after it collides with the surface element
and has reacted.  These values will be zero if the paticle vanished in
the reaction.

If a 2nd particle was created by the reaction, the {vx/post2},
{vy/post2}, {vz/post2} values are its velocity components.  If no 2nd
particle was created, these values will be zero.

:line

[Output info:]

This compute calculates a per-tally array, with the number of columns
equal to the number of values.

The array can be accessed by any command that uses per-tally values
from a compute as input.  See "Section 6.4"_Section_howto.html#howto_4
for an overview of SPARTA output options.

The per-tally array values will be in the "units"_units.html
appropriate to the individual values as described above.  {Time} is in
time units; see above for details.  {Xc}, {yc}, and {zc} are in
distance units.  {Vx/pre}, {vy/pre}, {vz/pre} are in velocity units,
as are {vx/post}, {vy/post}, {vz/post} and {vx/post2}, {vy/post2},
{vz/post2}.

:line

[Restrictions:] none

[Related commands:]

"compute collision/tally"_compute_collision_tally.html, "dump tally"_dump.html

[Default:] none

